Now in this video we're going to take a
look at using Spring's feature of
Component Scans and Component Scan is a way
for Spring to look at your directory
structure or your package structure, I
should say and determine and find Spring
Beans in that. So it's going to be
looking for classes that have been annotated
with Spring annotations that to declare
them either as a Configuration, a Java
Configuration or in our case, what we're
going to be looking at is Spring Beans
that we declared through the annotations
for Services and Controllers and
Repositories and what not. So Spring is
going to look at specific packages for
that and a very beginner mistake that I
see happen a lot is Spring Boot does by
default, it looks at its own package and
does a component scan down but it
doesn't scan the world and it's on
purpose for that because if you have a
large project and you brought in a lot
of stuff to scan tens of thousands of
classes it's going to take some time. So
you do want to be very specific and
targeted where you're telling Spring
scan. So I'm going to switch over to
IntelliJ now. We're going to take our
Dependency Injection project that we've
been working out and we're going to
refactor it to show you some component
scanning. Alright in this section I'm
going to show you a demonstration of
setting up the Component scanning. So I'm
back in our little project that we've
been using for demonstrating Dgonnaependency
Injection with Spring and if you look at
how we have the project laid out. We
have the SpringBootapplication. This is
running the Spring and this main class
and this annotation here, the Spring Boot
annotation, what he is saying is, I'm
going to do a Component Scan from
this package and down. So he's going to
see everything in guru.springframework
and then any package is
declared under that and this is
something I've seen people have a lot of
trouble understanding. So if I come over
here and if I refactor things and I move
the services down under guru. So I'm just
going to do this.
Refactor that. So now if we look at the
Spring Context, the way things are
set up,
everything's been moved to guru.services.
Not exactly what I wanted to do
IntelliJ. That looks right I'm sorry that
is exactly what I want to do. It just
looked funny for a second. So a little screen
refresh. So now if I go to run it, so
let's go ahead and run this and I'll
show you how everything is not found. So
now we're getting errors saying that
the GreetingService can't be found and
this is exactly what happens if you
declare something outside that Spring
Boot structure. Now to fix this I'm going
to show you exactly how we can fix this.
Now what we want, we want to include the
services package. So I come up here and
use annotation, @ComponentScan and this
will take in, actually has several
options when it comes up here and it
shows us base packages or base classes.
You can actually declare a class in here
and we'll do Component Scan on that
class and the package is down from that
class. So everything is important to
remember when we're doing the Component
Scan, it is going to work on the whole
package tree. So it's not just that
package but any packages below it. So
what I'm going to do is I'm going to use
basePackages here and we'll look at
that and we'll add in that guru.services package and I'll show you how
to do that. We're going to do an array
basePackages, now we'll take an array of
strings. So now we have this clear
like that,
so now Spring is going to see that and IntelliJ
is not happy about that. Oh basically so
I mistakenly took basePackage Casses
and we want basePackages.
So a good catch by IntelliJ there. Now if
I run this, our Spring Configuration is
going to be happy again because it's
going to see those classes. And I ran into
an error here. So no myController. So
let's go ahead and add in the other
package. So in doing that, when I declared
the basePackages, I overrode the default
behavior of Spring Boot and in doing
that, Spring Boot was no longer looking
in Spring or in guru.springframework. It was only looking in guru.services
that's why I got that error
there. So that's why I had and the guru.springframeword
dand that this is a
pretty handy way to declare where Spring
wants to go and do a package scan and
just to clarify. Now anything, if I have
you can see that it did pick up the
controllers. I'm sorry it did pick up the
controller. So you can see how it's going
down into the package tree. So very
important to remember that this is
a base and it's going to search from
that package and down. Right so you
get an idea of how Components Scanning can
work now. So you saw me make the mistake
with basePackages instead of base classes and
IntelliJ caught that. I didn't catch on
screen at first but using classes is
another alternative that we could use. What do I do in the field, I will go back
and forth. I am settled on one or the
other, some developers prefer one, some
don't. if somebody's using one already
I will follow suit and use that general
rule of thumb but you can actually mix them. So I've seen that done too.
So you have the option to use
either the package name as a string or
pick a class and declare that class in
there. I don't think it really
matters what you use.